https://tianpan.co/notes/162-designing-smart-notification-of-stock-price-changes



Requirements 
3 million users
5000 stocks + 250 global stocks
a user gets notified about the price change when
subscribing the stock
the stock has 5% or 10% changes
since a) the last week or b) the last day
extensibility. may support other kinds of notifications like breaking news, earnings call, etc.




Price ticker
	data fetching policies
		option 1 preliminary: fetches data every 5 mins and flush into the time-series database in batches.
		option 2 advanced: nowadays external systems usually push data directly so that we do not have to pull all the time.
		~6000 points per request or per price change.
	data retention of 1 week, because this is just the speeding layer of the lambda architecture.

Price watcher
	read the data ranging from last week or last 24 hours for each stock.
	calculate if the fluctuation exceeds 5% or 10% in those two time spans. we get tuples like (stock, up 5%, 1 week).
	corner case: should we normalize the price data? for example, some abnormal price like someone sold UBER mistakenly for $1 USD.
	ratelimit (because 5% or 10% delta may occur many times within one day), and then emit an event PRICE_CHANGE(STOCK_CODE, timeSpan, percentage) to the notification queue.

might need a notification type db and cache as well for Price watcher to read

Periodical triggers are cron jobs, e.g. Airflow, Cadence.

notification queue
	may not necessarily be introduced in the first place when users and stocks are small.
	may accept generic messaging event, like PRICE_CHANGE, EARNINGS_CALL, BREAKING_NEWS, etc.

Notifier
	subscribe the notification queue to get the event
	and then fetch who to notify from the user settings service
	finally based on user settings, send out messages through APNs, FCM or AWS SES.

user settings db would have table partitioned by notification type so notifier can easily know who subscript for a particular notification
each notification typ could be a topic and notifier will consume messages and send to all user subscribe the notification type